# The MIT License (MIT)
Copyright (c) 2016-2023 Jason Manuel

Permission is hereby granted, free of charge, to any person obtaining a copy of
this software and associated documentation files (the "Software"), to deal in
the Software without restriction, including without limitation the rights to
use, copy, modify, merge, publish, distribute, sublicense, and/or sell copies of
the Software, and to permit persons to whom the Software is furnished to do so,
subject to the following conditions:

The above copyright notice and this permission notice shall be included in all
copies or substantial portions of the Software.

THE SOFTWARE IS PROVIDED "AS IS", WITHOUT WARRANTY OF ANY KIND, EXPRESS OR
IMPLIED, INCLUDING BUT NOT LIMITED TO THE WARRANTIES OF MERCHANTABILITY, FITNESS
FOR A PARTICULAR PURPOSE AND NONINFRINGEMENT. IN NO EVENT SHALL THE AUTHORS OR
COPYRIGHT HOLDERS BE LIABLE FOR ANY CLAIM, DAMAGES OR OTHER LIABILITY, WHETHER
IN AN ACTION OF CONTRACT, TORT OR OTHERWISE, ARISING FROM, OUT OF OR IN
CONNECTION WITH THE SOFTWARE OR THE USE OR OTHER DEALINGS IN THE SOFTWARE.

---

The file `examples/four_bit_adder.cat` is based on the Forth answer to [this
programming task on Rosetta Code](https://rosettacode.org/wiki/Four_bit_adder),
contributed by user Hansoft. Therefore, it is under the [GNU Free Documentation
License 1.2](http://www.gnu.org/licenses/fdl-1.2.html) and **not** the MIT
license above.

The file `examples/sub_cipher.cat` is based on the Python answer to [this
programming task on Rosetta
Code](https://rosettacode.org/wiki/Substitution_Cipher), contributed by user
Zorro1024. Therefore, it is under the [GNU Free Documentation License
1.2](http://www.gnu.org/licenses/fdl-1.2.html) and **not** the MIT license
above.

All files are under the MIT license unless otherwise specified.

**Our `desc` parser combinator is based on the source code of `parsy.desc`. [Parsy
is under its own
license.](https://github.com/python-parsy/parsy/blob/master/LICENSE)**

---

Some text is copied from the JSON-RPC specification.

Copyright (C) 2007-2010 by the JSON-RPC Working Group

This document and translations of it may be used to implement JSON-RPC, it may
be copied and furnished to others, and derivative works that comment on or
otherwise explain it or assist in its implementation may be prepared, copied,
published and distributed, in whole or in part, without restriction of any kind,
provided that the above copyright notice and this paragraph are included on all
such copies and derivative works. However, this document itself may not
bemodified in any way.
